title: "Users information and cyberspace"
icon: star-o
author: LUCKSON
tags: [cyberspace , communication, information, security, Africa, cyber security ]

##INTRODUCTION
With the advent of internet, accumulation in the number of people making use of it for everyday interaction has grown enormously be it in business or public sector. It has outweighed the pace at which we cannot catch up with its developments, in terms of understanding exactly what’s taking place behind the screen once we are logged in and the systems that we have become so reliant on in order to communicate and remain informed.
So this discussion is going to be looking at giving a realist expression enlightening people about cyberspace given its complexities paying attention to security and privacy of their information from abuse, surveillance and other forms of cyber attacks. It shall also briefly touch on the African status to this important topic.
##The connection of cyberspace and users information 
This connection can best described as an environment in which digitalized information is created, stored and exchanged over computer networks. This information is identifiable to the individual. I am to document the exercise of power hidden from the average internet user by combining technical intelligence and using open source information gathering. 
The main topic is necessitated by a mind opening book by Ronald J Deibert (Black Code) 2013 which gives a rather insightful thought provoking briefing inside the battle for cyberspace. According to this book cyberspace is inevitable, with statistical data showing that in 2012 there were more mobile devices on the planet than people, increasingly embedded in society rich or poor, a communication arena that does not discriminate. As much as they have been revolutions in communication technology that we have celebrated and admired i.e radio, television and telegraph. The major distinction with cyberspace is the speed at which it has spread and in continuous mode connecting two thirds of the world in a single communications environment. It is us the users who provide, create the information and do the connecting.
Most data that is stored in our technological gadgets evaporates in the ‘cloud’ that we don’t have control over, for example Google is in USA which has an act that compels it to release any data when requested for it by government. Mobile connectivity and social networking give us instant awareness in our interests at the same time entrusting our information to private companies making ourselves liable to precision tracking in time and space. The enormous advantages of technology make us more and more dependent on it and increasingly vulnerable.
##Advantages that cyberspace has brought in 21st Century
While certain complexities has been brought about by cyber space, we can’t run away from the fact that it has brought in itself amazing benefits that the ordinary man on the street is clearly enjoying.1) To be able to publish anything from journals, science fiction, researches, papers and immediately reaching potential world wide audience which represents a democratization of communications that philosophers and writers ever dreamed of.2) Families continents apart from each other now share their daily struggles and triumphs without any hussle.3) Doctors connect with their patients thousands of miles away in real time.
##Disadvantages- 
As much as there have been benefits derived from cyberspace, we can’t therefore ignore the negative amounts or dark side which technology has brought along with all the connectivity. 1) A global disease with many symptoms in the form of malicious threats buttressed by mutually reinforcing causes which are unintended by-products of the digital universe thrust upon by ourselves with blind acceptance. 2) Deliberate manipulations that exploit the vulnerability in cyberspace with sinister motives. It is all summed up by cybercrime which has been there since the origins of internet and is now very explosive in-terms of growth and complexity.
To amalgamate this discussion we have to at least summarily infuse the aspect of cyber security as a way of enhancing better use of cyberspace through a collaborative effort with some kind of international cooperation to try standardize cyberspace operations. An interesting dilemma in that respect has been unveiled by the “security vs. privacy” discussion. Perfect privacy and security are practically impossible but it is essential to define some very high and measurable levels of trustworthiness that are compatible with the exercise of civil rights in cyberspace.
##An African narrative 
On this topic is one of a user who is always playing catch-up to new technologies and has no control or contribution whatsoever on its development. This has led to Africa being a target for criminal cyber activities due to a lot of laxities and vulnerabilities. According to Kenya – based IT and business advisory firm Serianu, cybercrimes cost African economies $3.5 billion in 2017. In that year, annual losses to cybercrimes were estimated for Nigeria at $649 million, and Kenya at $210 million. Likewise, according to the South African Banking Risk Information Centre (SABRIC), South Africa loses $157 million annually to cyber-attacks. 
According to Business Software Alliance, two countries with the world’s highest software piracy rates in 2017 were from Africa: Libya and Zimbabwe. The proportions of unlicensed software in the two countries were 90% and 89% respectively. Technological globalization is spoken in seminars and forums but on the ground it remains a myth to the African child who is in most part rural without even the basic access to internet nor it’s supporting simplest of gadgets like desktop computers or mobile phone. Connectivity on social media like facebook, twitter, whatsapp platforms is on the rise fundamentally so because on the way its convenient in conducting social liaisons in mostly urban set-up but there is no clear understanding on their information security or whether where it goes when you sign up and make certain agreements, for example  in 2017, South Africa’s Information Regulatory Authority started the investigation of that year’s biggest data breach in the country, in which more than 60 million people’s personal data was stolen. It’s a combination of weak legislation and law enforcement. Most African economies are characterized by permissiveness of regulatory regimes that provide a fertile ground as cybercriminals see Africa as a safe haven to operate illegally with impunity.
##Solutions- 
Resignation in the use of cyberspace is no option but to adopt strategies and solutions that makes it difficult for hacking or other forms of attacks. 1)  A well defined target should be implemented when attacked, to aim radically high by putting new formats, processes, norms, infrastructure  through new technologies which would be a new level of security for example Blockchain. 2) Email services companies offering cloud service also offer the option of a two-step verification, which requires the user to enter his or her password and a verification code sent via SMS before being able to log on an online account. Opting for a two-step verification process could deter a potential hack. 3) Lucideus Tech, CEO, Saket Modi believes a culture to comprehend the digital world needs to be developed in the education system. 4) Purchasing and installing genuine operating systems and office applications, mechanisms to track release, and application of security updates and internet security software. 5)  Policy makers in Africa should speedily launch cyber security skill development programs through engagement of other international cooperating partners.6)  Initiatives also need to focus on enhancing law enforcement capacities to increase certainty of punishment for those engaged in cybercrime activities.

##Conclusion
The ubiquity of Cyber Space and its impact on our lives, its risk potential in operating critical infrastructures and hazardous assets, requires that governments, industry and academia take on responsibility, and not only “the user”, as often claimed. Cyber security legislation and enforcement measures in the Africa are gradually improving. A variety of private sector initiatives have arisen that will help to strengthen the continent’s cyber security landscape.
##References
https://www.free-and-safe.org/report-1st-free-safe-cyberspace-workshop-eu-edition-2015/
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/security-tech/security/ransomware-impact-and-action-plan-for-indian-businesses/articleshow/64679917.cms
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/1097198X.2019.1603527
Ronald J Diebert (2013), Black Code, Inside the Battle for Cyberspace
